Add SelfRemove proposal to MLS extensions (#20)
mlswg/mls-extensions: draft-ietf-mls-extensions.md

`application_content` is interpreted as the first MediaType specified in
`required_media_types`.

## SelfRemove Proposal

The design of the MLS protocol prevents a member of

> an MLS group from removing itself immediately from the group. To cause

Author: ```suggestion
an MLS group from removing itself immediately from the group. (To cause
```

> an immediate change in the group, a member must send a Commit message.

Reviewer: The first of these three sentences seems to be the conclusion of the second and third. Maybe change up the order a bit?

However the sender of a Commit message knows the keying material of the

> new epoch and therefore needs to be part of the group. Instead a member

Author: ```suggestion
new epoch and therefore needs to be part of the group.) Instead a member
```

wishing to remove itself can send a Remove Proposal and wait for another
member to Commit its Proposal.

Unfortunately, MLS clients that join via an External Commit ignore
pending, but otherwise valid, Remove Proposals. The member trying to remove itself has

> to monitor the group and send a new Remove Proposal in any new epoch until the member is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to monitor the group and send a new Remove Proposal in every new epoch until the member is
```

removed. In a
group with a burst of external joiners, a member connected over a
high-latency link (or one that is merely unlucky) might have to wait
several epochs to remove itself. A real-world situation in which this happens
is a member trying to remove itself from a conference call as several dozen
new participants are trying to join (often on the hour).

This section describes a new `SelfRemove` Proposal extension type. It is
designed to be included in External Commits.

### Extension Description

This document specifies a new MLS Proposal type called `SelfRemove`. Its syntax

> is described using the TLS Presentation Language [@!RFC8446] below (its contents

Author: ```suggestion
is described using the TLS Presentation Language [@!RFC8446] below (its content
```

> is an empty struct). It is allowed in External Commits and requires an UpdatePath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are an empty struct). It is allowed in External Commits and requires an UpdatePath.
```
This should be plural, shouldn't it?

SelfRemove proposals are only allowed in a Commit by reference. SelfRemove
cannot be sent as an external proposal.

~~~ tls-presentation
struct {} SelfRemove;

struct {
    ProposalType msg_type;
    select (Proposal.msg_type) {
        case add:                      Add;
        case update:                   Update;
        case remove:                   Remove;
        case psk:                      PreSharedKey;
        case reinit:                   ReInit;
        case external_init:            ExternalInit;
        case group_context_extensions: GroupContextExtensions;
        case self_remove:              SelfRemove;
    };
} Proposal;
~~~

The description of behavior below only applies if all the
members of a group support this extension in their
capabilities; such a group is a "self-remove-capable group".

> An MLS client which implements this specification can send a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An MLS client which supports this extension can send a
```

SelfRemove Proposal whenever it would like to remove itself
from a self-remove-capable group. Because the point of a
SelfRemove Proposal is to be available to external joiners
(which are not yet members), these proposals MUST be sent

> as an MLS PublicMessage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as MLS PublicMessages.
```

Whenever a member receives a SelfRemove Proposal, it includes
it along with any other pending Propsals when sending a Commit.
It already MUST send a Commit of pending Proposals before sending
new application messages.

> When a member receives a Commit with an embedded SelfRemove Proposal,

Reviewer: "embedded" (at least to me) implies that it's by-value. Maybe
```suggestion
When a member receives a Commit referencing one or more SelfRemove Proposals,
```

it treats the proposal like a Remove Proposal, except the leaf node to remove
is determined by looking in the Sender `leaf_index` of the original Proposal.
The member is able to verify that the Sender was a member.

Whenever a new joiner is about to join a self-remove-capable group with an
External Commit, the new joiner MUST fetch any pending SelfRemove Proposals
along with the GroupInfo object, and include the SelfRemove Proposals
in its External Commit by reference. (An ExternalCommit can contain zero or

> more SelfRemove proposals). The new joiner validates the SelfRemove

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more SelfRemove proposals). The new joiner MUST validate the SelfRemove
```

Proposal before including it by reference, except that it skips the validation
of the `membership_tag` because a non-member cannot verify membership.

During validation, SelfRemove proposals are processed after Update proposals
and before Remove proposals. If there is a pending SelfRemove proposal for a specific
leaf node and a pending Remove proposal for the same leaf node, the Remove proposal is
invalid. A client MUST NOT issue more than one SelfRemove proposal per epoch.

> The MLS Distribution Service (DS) needs to validate SelfRemove Proposals it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MLS Delivery Service (DS) needs to validate SelfRemove Proposals it
```

Reviewer: "needs to" maybe this should be "SHOULD"?

receives (except that it cannot validate the `membership_tag`). If the DS
provides a GroupInfo object to an external joiner, the DS SHOULD attach any
SelfRemove proposals known to the DS to the GroupInfo object.

> As with Remove proposals, clients need to be prepared to receive the Commit

Reviewer: This is a bit unclear to me. What does it mean for a client to be prepared?

> As with Remove proposals, clients need to be prepared to receive the Commit

Author: ```suggestion
As with Remove proposals, clients need to be able to receive a Commit
```
